[This file was autogenerated by LPdoc, please do not edit.]

README_LPDOC
************

`lpdoc' is an automatic program documentation generator for (C)LP
systems.

`lpdoc' generates a reference manual automatically from one or more
source files for a logic program (including ISO-Prolog, Ciao, many CLP
systems, ...). It is particularly useful for documenting library
modules, for which it automatically generates a description of the
module interface. However, `lpdoc' can also be used quite successfully
to document full applications and to generate nicely formatted plain
ascii "readme" files. A fundamental advantage of using `lpdoc' to
document programs is that it is much easier to maintain a true
correspondence between the program and its documentation, and to
identify precisely to what version of the program a given printed
manual corresponds.

The quality of the documentation generated can be greatly enhanced by
including within the program text:

   * assertions (types, modes, etc. ...) for the predicates in the
     program, and

   * machine-readable comments (in the "literate programming" style).


The assertions and comments included in the source file need to be
written using the Ciao system assertion language. A simple
compatibility library is available to make traditional (constraint)
logic programming systems ignore these assertions and comments allowing
normal treatment of programs documented in this way.

The documentation is currently generated in `HTML' or `texinfo' format.
From the `texinfo' output, printed and on-line manuals in several
formats (dvi, ps, info, etc.) can be easily generated automatically,
using publicly available tools. `lpdoc' can also generate 'man' pages
(Unix man page format) as well as brief descriptions in html or emacs
info formats suitable for inclusion in an on-line index of
applications. In particular, `lpdoc' can create and maintain fully
automatically WWW and info sites containing on-line versions of the
documents it produces.

The `lpdoc' manual (and the Ciao system manuals) are generated by
`lpdoc'.

`lpdoc' is distributed under the GNU general public license.

